README.md, before:

# KitchenSync

KitchenSync helps kitchens stay on top of pantry inventory, expirations, receipts, and shared cooking activity. Authenticated users land in a protected dashboard that highlights what needs attention so ingredients get used before they go to waste.

The original Next.js + Supabase starter guide is preserved in [`docs/reference/nextjs-supabase-starter.md`](docs/reference/nextjs-supabase-starter.md) if you need it.

## Highlights

- **Kitchens & members** – each user belongs to a kitchen with locations, collaborators, and row-level access controls.
- **Inventory intelligence** – dashboard cards surface total items, upcoming expirations, active alerts, and recent receipts.
- **Onboarding guardrails** – new users confirm profile details, theme/units, communication preferences, and storage locations before seeing the dashboard.
- **Supabase-first auth** – server components verify sessions and redirect unauthenticated visitors to the login flow.

## Onboarding Journey

When a new user signs in, KitchenSync guides them through three quick steps:

1. **Introduce yourself** – confirm name/pronouns and choose preferences such as theme, measurement units, and whether to receive product updates or personalized tips.
2. **Personalize KitchenSync** – flag any dietary styles and allergens so the experience can highlight relevant items.
3. **Set up your kitchen** – name the kitchen and enable at least one storage location (Pantry, Fridge, Freezer, etc.) to unlock the dashboard.

These guardrails ensure every account has sensible defaults before team members start collaborating.

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 16 (App Router, Server Components, Turbopack dev server)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui primitives
- **Data & Auth**: Supabase (Postgres, Auth, Storage) with helpers in `lib/supabase`
- **Runtime**: TypeScript, ESLint
- **Hosting**: Vercel (preview deploys on PRs, production on `main`)

## Repo Structure

- `app/`
  - `page.tsx` – marketing landing page
  - `auth/` – login, sign-up, password reset routes
  - `protected/`
    - `layout.tsx` – guards auth, fetches dashboard data, wraps children in the dashboard shell
    - `page.tsx` – main dashboard view
    - `profile/`, `kitchen-settings/`, `settings/` – additional authenticated pages
    - `theme.css` – Tailwind tokens specific to the dashboard UI
- `components/`
  - `dashboard/` – dashboard context, shell, and reusable UI pieces under `dashboard/ui`
  - `ui/` – shared shadcn/ui wrappers (`button`, `card`, etc.)
  - Auth helpers and form components (`auth-button.tsx`, `login-form.tsx`, …)
- `lib/` – Supabase client helpers, dashboard data loaders, domain utilities
- `docs/` – supplemental documentation and archival reference material
- `public/` – static assets (icons, Open Graph images, etc.)

## Getting Started

1. **Prerequisites**
   - Node.js 20 (use `nvm install 20 && nvm use 20`)
   - npm (bundled with Node)
   - Supabase + Vercel access for environment variables

2. **Clone & install**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/KitchenSync-Team/KitchenSync.git
   cd KitchenSync
   npm install
   ```

3. **Configure environment**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   ```
   Fill in:
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
   - `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` (server-only usage)
   - Optional: `NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL` for auth redirects

4. **Run & validate**
   ```bash
   npm run dev    # http://localhost:3000
   npm run lint   # optional: static analysis
   npm run build  # optional: production build check
   ```
   Sign up through the local app to confirm Supabase Auth and the protected dashboard work end-to-end.

## Working in the Repo

- Keep dashboard UI in `components/dashboard/ui` so it can be shared across protected routes.
- Access Supabase via helpers in `lib/supabase` or domain utilities like `lib/dashboard.ts` to stay RLS-safe.
- Tailwind tokens for the protected area are centralized in `app/protected/theme.css`.
- The marketing site and dashboard each have their own route groups under `app/`, but everything shares the global `layout.tsx`.

## Contributing

- Follow the branching guidelines in [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md) and keep feature branches rebased on `main`.
- Run `npm run lint` (and ideally `npm run build`) before opening a PR.
- Vercel automatically builds a preview for every PR; production deploys track the `main` branch.

See [`docs/ROADMAP.md`](docs/ROADMAP.md) for upcoming work. Historical starter documentation and additional guides live in the `docs/` directory.

Commit message:

Update README.md with folder structure and naming conventions.

README.md, after:

# KitchenSync

KitchenSync helps kitchens stay on top of pantry inventory, expirations, receipts, and shared cooking activity. Authenticated users land in a protected dashboard that highlights what needs attention so ingredients get used before they go to waste.

The original Next.js + Supabase starter guide is preserved in [`docs/reference/nextjs-supabase-starter.md`](docs/reference/nextjs-supabase-starter.md) if you need it.

## Highlights

- **Kitchens & members** – each user belongs to a kitchen with locations, collaborators, and row-level access controls.
- **Inventory intelligence** – dashboard cards surface total items, upcoming expirations, active alerts, and recent receipts.
- **Onboarding guardrails** – new users confirm profile details, theme/units, communication preferences, and storage locations before seeing the dashboard.
- **Supabase-first auth** – server components verify sessions and redirect unauthenticated visitors to the login flow.

## Onboarding Journey

When a new user signs in, KitchenSync guides them through three quick steps:

1. **Introduce yourself** – confirm name/pronouns and choose preferences such as theme, measurement units, and whether to receive product updates or personalized tips.
2. **Personalize KitchenSync** – flag any dietary styles and allergens so the experience can highlight relevant items.
3. **Set up your kitchen** – name the kitchen and enable at least one storage location (Pantry, Fridge, Freezer, etc.) to unlock the dashboard.

These guardrails ensure every account has sensible defaults before team members start collaborating.

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 16 (App Router, Server Components, Turbopack dev server)
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui primitives
- **Data & Auth**: Supabase (Postgres, Auth, Storage) with helpers in `lib/supabase`
- **Runtime**: TypeScript, ESLint
- **Hosting**: Vercel (preview deploys on PRs, production on `main`)

## Repo Structure

- `app/`
  - `page.tsx` – marketing landing page
  - `auth/` – login, sign-up, password reset routes
  - `protected/`
    - `layout.tsx` – guards auth, fetches dashboard data, wraps children in the dashboard shell
    - `page.tsx` – main dashboard view
    - `profile/`, `kitchen-settings/`, `settings/` – additional authenticated pages
    - `theme.css` – Tailwind tokens specific to the dashboard UI
- `components/`
  - `dashboard/` – dashboard context, shell, and reusable UI pieces under `dashboard/ui`
  - `ui/` – shared shadcn/ui wrappers (`button`, `card`, etc.)
  - Auth helpers and form components (`auth-button.tsx`, `login-form.tsx`, …)
- `lib/` – Supabase client helpers, dashboard data loaders, domain utilities
- `docs/` – supplemental documentation and archival reference material
- `public/` – static assets (icons, Open Graph images, etc.)

## Component Organization & Naming

- Keep feature-aware code in folders under `components/` (for example `dashboard/`, `onboarding/`) and export a named React component from each file (PascalCase function matching the UI).
- File names stay lowercase dash-separated (or a single word) to mirror the component they expose, with non-visual helpers using `.ts` instead of `.tsx` when appropriate.
- Shared UI primitives derived from shadcn/ui live in `components/ui/`; each file wraps the primitive, exports a PascalCase component, and re-exports helper variants as needed.
- Dashboard layout pieces collect under `components/dashboard/ui/` so `DashboardShell` can compose sidebar/header widgets without deep cross-imports.
- Interactive components that rely on client-side hooks include the `"use client"` directive at the top of the file for consistency.

## Getting Started

1. **Prerequisites**
   - Node.js 20 (use `nvm install 20 && nvm use 20`)
   - npm (bundled with Node)
   - Supabase + Vercel access for environment variables

2. **Clone & install**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/KitchenSync-Team/KitchenSync.git
   cd KitchenSync
   npm install
   ```

3. **Configure environment**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env.local
   ```
   Fill in:
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
   - `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` (server-only usage)
   - Optional: `NEXT_PUBLIC_SITE_URL` for auth redirects

4. **Run & validate**
   ```bash
   npm run dev    # http://localhost:3000
   npm run lint   # optional: static analysis
   npm run build  # optional: production build check
   ```
   Sign up through the local app to confirm Supabase Auth and the protected dashboard work end-to-end.

## Working in the Repo

- Keep dashboard UI in `components/dashboard/ui` so it can be shared across protected routes.
- Access Supabase via helpers in `lib/supabase` or domain utilities like `lib/dashboard.ts` to stay RLS-safe.
- Tailwind tokens for the protected area are centralized in `app/protected/theme.css`.
- The marketing site and dashboard each have their own route groups under `app/`, but everything shares the global `layout.tsx`.

## Contributing

- Follow the branching guidelines in [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](CONTRIBUTING.md) and keep feature branches rebased on `main`.
- Run `npm run lint` (and ideally `npm run build`) before opening a PR.
- Vercel automatically builds a preview for every PR; production deploys track the `main` branch.

See [`docs/ROADMAP.md`](docs/ROADMAP.md) for upcoming work. Historical starter documentation and additional guides live in the `docs/` directory.
